dr helen benson is summoned to a
military facility with several other
scientists when an alien spacecraft of
sorts
arrives in new york city a board is a
human-like alien and a giant robot of
immense size and power the alien
identifies himself as klattu
and says that he has come to save the
earth the u.s military and political
authorities see him as a threat however
and decide to use
so-called intensive interrogation
techniques on him
but dr benson decides to facilitate his
escape when she learns exactly what he
means when he says he is here to save
the earth
she tries to convince him to change his
intentions in 1928
a solitary mountaineer exploring the
karakoram mountains in india
encounters a glowing sphere he loses
consciousness and when he awakes
the sphere is gone and there is a scar
on his hand where a sample of his dna
has been taken
the scientists traveled to new york city
to wait for the object's collusion with
earth
as it nears the planet the object slows
down
just before impact revealed to be a
large spherical spaceship
it lands gently in central park and is
quickly surrounded by nypd
and heavily armed us military forces an
alien emerges and helen moves forward to
greet it
but amidst the confusion the alien is
shot
a gigantic humanoid robot appears and
temporarily disables everything in the
vicinity
by emitting a high-pitched noise before
the wounded alien voices the command
plateau barada nico to shut down the
robot's defensive response
the alien's exterior is found to be a
bio-engineered spacesuit
composed of placenta-like material
covering a human-like being
after the bullet is extracted during
surgery the being quickly ages
into clatu and looks like the
mountaineer from 1928.
clattu informs the secretary of defense
regina jackson
that he is a representative of a group
of civilians
set to talk to the leaders of earth
about saving the planet
when jackson instead sends him to be
interrogated clatu escapes and
reconnects with helen and her stepson
jacob
telling them that he must finish his
mission to save the earth the presence
of the sphere and other smaller spheres
that begin to appear all over the world
cause
widespread panic the military launches a
drone attack on the central park sphere
but are thwarted by the robot the
military takes a weapons-free approach
cautiously enclosing the robot soon
nicknamed
gort for genetically organized robotic
technology
and transporting it to the mount weather
underground facility in virginia
clatu meets with another alien mr wu who
has lived on earth for 70 years
wu tells clattu that he has found the
human race to be destructive
stubborn and unwilling to change which
matches clatto's experiences
klatu orders the smaller spheres to
collect specimens of animal species
to preserve them for later
reintroduction into the earth
he clarifies for helen that he means to
save the earth from destruction by
humankind
when a new jersey state trooper attempts
to take them into custody
cletu kills him then properly revives
the officer
telling helen and jacob that he did this
to simply disarm an obstacle to his
mission
hoping to persuade clattu to change his
mind about humanity
helen takes him to the home of professor
barnhart a nobel prize winner
they discuss how clatu's race went
through drastic collaborative evolution
to prevent the demise of their planet
barnhart pleads that earth is at the
same precipice and humanity should be
given a chance to understand that it too
must change while the adults are talking
jacob calls the authorities to come
and arrest clatu while the military is
examining gort
the robot transforms into a swarm of
winged insect-like
nano machines that self-replicate as
they consume
every man-made object in their path the
swarm
soon devours the entire facility
emerging above ground to continue
feeding
the military capture helen while clatu
and jacob escape
on foot as they travel klatu learns more
about humanity through jacob
and when jacob contacts helen and
arranges to meet at his father's grave
the secretary sends her to try to change
klattu's mind
at the grave jacob is heartbroken that
klattu cannot resurrect his long-dead
father
as helen and jacob have a tear-filled
reunion clatu's cumulative observations
of humans
convince him to stop the swarm grineer
drives them to the central park sphere
but the swarm has reached massive
proportions
klatu trudges through the swarm to the
sphere touching it moments before his
own body is consumed
the sphere deactivates the swarm saving
humanity
but at the expense of electrical
activity on earth
per clitu's warning that there will be a
price to the human way of life
the giant sphere leaves the earth
[Music]